.. raw:: html

   <!-- Part of the Exeme language project, under the MIT license. See '/LICENSE' for license information. SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT License. -->

#######
 Goals
#######

**********
 Overview
**********

Exeme is a programming language that explores a distant future for C++,
designed around a specific set of goals, priorities, and use cases.
Programming languages can be thought of as tools, and different tools
are created for different purposes. A clear statement of Exeme's
priorities helps the community to evaluate and use the language
effectively.

***************
 Project Goals
***************

Community
=========

Exeme's focus is on a healthy and vibrant community that has an
inclusive and welcoming culture. While this does not directly affect the
design of Exeme, it does affect the way Exeme is designed. The community
of Exeme (which includes both maintainers and users) needs to last for
years, and it needs to be able to scale up. It needs to support people
working on Exeme in many different situations - volunteering, studying,
teaching or as a hobby. There are a number of key ingredients that are
needed to achieve this.

The community and project needs a code of conduct
-------------------------------------------------

Our intention is for the Exeme community to be a welcoming and
respectful place. Regardless of a community member's status, we need to
have consistent expectations for how they should behave. These
expectations of behavior need to be clearly stated, both to set the
expectations for people who join us, but also to help us reinforce our
standards. It is also important that we are accountable to these
expectations and have effective community moderation mechanisms in
place. When behavior does step out of line, we need to have tools and
policies in place for how we will identify and manage it.

An open process for Exeme changes
---------------------------------

The Community needs to be able to get involved effectively in developing
the language, while keeping the process efficient. In other words, we
need a process that is inclusive and in which everyone feels at ease.
Community members should understand how and why decisions are made, and
be able to influence them before they are made, as well as provide
feedback afterwards. This helps to ensure that we have a clear rationale
for all decisions made regarding the language.

Being inclusive is different from including everyone
----------------------------------------------------

We want to avoid excluding, or marginalizing members of the community.
However, we expect to inevitably make choices that benefit some Exeme
community members more than others. Justification will be provided for
these decisions, but achieving Exeme's goals (namely that of a healthy
community) will be the guiding rule.

Language tools and ecosystem
============================

Programming languages do not succeed on their own. We cannot merely
design and create a language to succeed, we have to tackle the full
ecosystem of tools that enables developers to effectively use the
language. This includes not only a compiler and standard library, but
also a broad range of other tools that enable developers to be more
productive.

Reference Implementation
------------------------

We will provide a reference implementation. This allows the language to
have a consistent experience for developers. It also enables us to
carefully consider implementation considerations throughout the design
of the language.

.. note::

   This should *not* be seen as a replacement for formal specification
   at any point.
